>> Todd Gardner: So
we're still in core web vitals, but
to talk about our last core web vital
which is interaction to Next paint,
we need to understand another
kind of chart, a flame chart.
Did anybody know what a flame chart is?
You've probably seen it before,
maybe didn't know this word.
We're gonna talk about it because this
is an important part of understanding
the performance of JavaScript, which is
ultimately part of what we are measuring
here with our last Core Web Vital.
So here is a flame chart,
a flame chart is visible in Chrome and
a bunch of other tools.
Usually it's shown alongside a waterfall
because it's a different dimension of
a waterfall.
Now we are mentioning time here,the usual
time that we are measuring here is in
milliseconds and microseconds.
We are measuring the actual
executions of what the browser
is doing on a millisecond to
millisecond time frame, and
so when we look at this all charts
there are a stack set of bars.
And so we have some tasks,
some thing needs to happen,
and that thing starts some other thing.
And we show that other thing below it,
which then starts other things,
so we see it as like this stacked task.
Now, here's how this would look
like in code, for example.
So, I have just these three JavaScript
functions, task 1 calls task 2,
task 2 calls task 3, and
task 3 does something.
If we execute task 1,
that would show up out of order.
So if we have this JavaScript, task 1
calls task 2, task 2 calls task 3 and
task 3 does something,
that's what this would look like.
So over time, we have task one execute,
task 1 starts task 2,
task 2 starts task 3.
The size of these bars indicates
like how much of the parent task
was the child task consuming.
So task 1 is the entire time,
task 2 is part of task one, and
task 3 is part of task 2.
So how does this work, again,
they're color coded in when we're talking
about the web, whereas gray is the top
level browser task, something happens.
Blue is parsing HTML, pink is layout and
paint events, dark yellow is JavaScript.
But it's usually the top level JavaScript,
like evaluate and compile scripts,
stuff that's like probably just pass
through events that don't do very much.
The lighter yellow is shown as
actual JavaScript execution time,
like an expensive
operation Is doing things.
And then green is extensions, and
unless you're doing extension development,
largely you can ignore that
sort of stuff when you see it.
So let's look at a little example,
here is a small HTML document,
it doesn't even have a head,
in the body, there is a script tag.
The script tag waits for the load
event and then creates an element and
sticks it in the body, right,
that pretty straightforward?
So how does this show up in a flame chart?
Well, what we would see is when
the HTML is done after the HTML
document has fully come down,
the browser triggers a task.
And it's a task to, hey,
I got to parse this HTML I just got,
as part of parsing that HTML,
it runs into a script tag.
And that script tag needs to be compiled,
at this point,
we have just looked at the top level
of this JavaScript of this document.
Found the script tag, found that there's
a window add event listener, and
then didn't really care
about what was in there.
Just said, hey, there's a event listener
I need to detach at some point later,
another task is fired.
When they'll load event is ready and
the event load is fired.
It calls the function,
which then has to be compiled because it
didn't actually read the contents of that
function until it needed, it compiles it.
And then executes our
function that triggers,
that generates elements and
will cause a layout event.
So this is a simplified version,
if we were to load this document and
actually look at it in Chrome,
this is Flame.
This is the key parts of the flame that
we would see, why is this important?
Why are Flame Charts
important in web performance?
Well, we have to talk about
the main thread on the browser,
JavaScript is everything is operating in
a single thread called the main thread.
It's the single thread of
work that the browser has for
handling user events, laying out
the document, painting everything and
running your JavaScript all happens in
the same thread and has to be shared.
So if you write a bunch of
JavaScript that is really slow and
does a whole bunch of work.
It can stop other things from happening,
other things like firing events,
laying out the document and
painting things.
It can stop things from happening that
the user would expect to happen and
we'll talk about next,
why that's important.